docs/rag-studio-quickstart.md, before:

### RAG Studio Quickstart (UI)

Follow this checklist to get productive fast.

---

### 1) Open the app

Landing Page:

## ![landing-page](images/landing-page.png)

Note on configuration (CML + CAII):

- If your CML deployment and CAII (Cloudera AI Inference) endpoints (LLM, Embeddings, Rerankers) are in the same environment, the app validates Studio configuration with CAII.
- If no valid configuration is detected, after clicking “Get started” you will be redirected to Settings to configure the Studio.

## ![settings-no-data](images/settings-studio-settings-no-data.png)

### 2) Create a knowledge base

1. Go to “Knowledge Bases”. Click “Create Knowledge Base”.
2. Fill required fields: Name, Chunk size, Embedding model.
3. Optional: Select a Summarization model.
4. Save.

## ![create-kb](images/rag-studio-kb-create-kb.png)

---

### 3) Upload documents

1. Open the knowledge base → “Manage” tab.
2. Drag-and-drop or select files, then click “Start Upload”.
3. Confirm the uploaded files appear in the table.

## ![manage-tab](images/rag-studio-kb-manage-page.png)

---

### 4) Start a chat

1. Go to “Chats”.
2. In the input box, type a question.
3. Send the message (Enter or click send). If no session exists, it will be created automatically on first send.
4. Optional before sending: click “Chat Settings” to open the Create Session modal and preselect knowledge base(s) and response model.

Tips:

- Use the KB selector (when creating a new session) next to the input to pick knowledge bases.
- Use the model selector next to the input to choose the response model.
- Toggle the database icon to include/exclude the knowledge base per message.
- Use the stop icon to cancel streaming.
- Click suggested questions to continue the conversation.

Suggested questions:

- If a session is created with no messages, you’ll see Suggested Questions in the chat body (KB-aware when KBs are selected; default list if none).
- After you send a message, follow-up suggestions appear after the response.

## ![chat](images/rag-studio-chats-page.png)

## ![follow-up-question](images/suggested-questions-follow-up.png)

---

### 5) Tune chat settings (optional)

1. Click “Chat Settings” in the chat header.
2. Adjust: session name, knowledge bases, response model, rerank model, max docs, and advanced options (Tool Calling, HyDE, Summary Filter, Disable Streaming).
3. Save.

## ![chat-settings](images/chat-settings-update.png)

---

### 6) Use Tools (beta, optional)

- Enable Tool calling from Chat Settings.
- If Tool Calling is enabled, click the wrench icon → select tools.
- Manage available tools in Settings → Tools.

## ![select-tool-modal](images/chat-select-tool-modal.png)

---

### 7) Review analytics (optional)

1. Open “Analytics”.
2. Review App Metrics and Session Metrics.
3. Filter by model, reranker (or None), summary filter usage, HyDE, knowledge-base usage, project.

## ![analytics-filter](images/rag-studio-analytics-page.png)

## ![analytics-charts](images/rag-studio-analytics-charts.png)

---

### Troubleshooting

- No embedding models available when creating a knowledge base → Configure models in Settings → Model Configuration.
- Upload errors → Check file size/type and retry.
- Chat not using knowledge base → Ensure the database icon is filled (included) or select KBs for the session.

## ![kb-selected](images/chat-input-kb-selected.png)

## ![kb-unselected](images/chat-input-kb-unselected.png)

Commit message:

docs: Added settings configurations to UI guide

docs/rag-studio-quickstart.md, after:

### RAG Studio Quickstart (UI)

#### Table of contents

- [1) Open the app](#1-open-the-app)
- [2) Create a knowledge base](#2-create-a-knowledge-base)
- [3) Upload documents](#3-upload-documents)
- [4) Start a chat](#4-start-a-chat)
- [5) Tune chat settings (optional)](#5-tune-chat-settings-optional)
- [6) Use Tools (beta, optional)](#6-use-tools-beta-optional)
- [7) Review analytics (optional)](#7-review-analytics-optional)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

### 1) Open the app

Landing Page:

## ![landing-page](images/landing-page.png)

Note on configuration (CML + CAII):

- If your CML deployment and CAII (Cloudera AI Inference) endpoints (LLM, Embeddings, Rerankers) are in the same environment, the app validates Studio configuration with CAII.
- If no valid configuration is detected, you will be redirected to Settings to configure the Studio.
- For a breakdown of each option, see Studio Settings configurations in the [UI Guide](rag-studio-ui-guide.md#studio-settings-configurations).

## ![settings-no-data](images/settings-studio-settings-no-data.png)

### 2) Create a knowledge base

1. Go to “Knowledge Bases”. Click “Create Knowledge Base”.
2. Fill required fields: Name, Chunk size, Embedding model.
3. Optional: Select a Summarization model.
4. Save.

## ![create-kb](images/rag-studio-kb-create-kb.png)

---

### 3) Upload documents

1. Open the knowledge base → “Manage” tab.
2. Drag-and-drop or select files, then click “Start Upload”.
3. Confirm the uploaded files appear in the table.

## ![manage-tab](images/rag-studio-kb-manage-page.png)

---

### 4) Start a chat

1. Go to “Chats”.
2. In the input box, type a question.
3. Send the message (Enter or click send). If no session exists, it will be created automatically on first send.
4. Optional before sending: click “Chat Settings” to open the Create Session modal and preselect knowledge base(s) and response model.

Tips:

- Use the KB selector (when creating a new session) next to the input to pick knowledge bases.
- Use the model selector next to the input to choose the response model.
- Toggle the database icon to include/exclude the knowledge base per message.
- Use the stop icon to cancel streaming.
- Click suggested questions to continue the conversation.

Suggested questions:

- If a session is created with no messages, you’ll see Suggested Questions in the chat body (KB-aware when KBs are selected; default list if none).
- After you send a message, follow-up suggestions appear after the response.

## ![chat](images/rag-studio-chats-page.png)

## ![follow-up-question](images/suggested-questions-follow-up.png)

---

### 5) Tune chat settings (optional)

1. Click “Chat Settings” in the chat header.
2. Adjust: session name, knowledge bases, response model, rerank model, max docs, and advanced options (Tool Calling, HyDE, Summary Filter, Disable Streaming).
3. Save.

## ![chat-settings](images/chat-settings-update.png)

---

### 6) Use Tools (beta, optional)

- Enable Tool calling from Chat Settings.
- If Tool Calling is enabled, click the wrench icon → select tools.
- Manage available tools in Settings → Tools.

## ![select-tool-modal](images/chat-select-tool-modal.png)

---

### 7) Review analytics (optional)

1. Open “Analytics”.
2. Review App Metrics and Session Metrics.
3. Filter by model, reranker (or None), summary filter usage, HyDE, knowledge-base usage, project.

## ![analytics-filter](images/rag-studio-analytics-page.png)

## ![analytics-charts](images/rag-studio-analytics-charts.png)

---

### Troubleshooting

- No embedding models available when creating a knowledge base → Configure models in Settings → Model Configuration.
- Upload errors → Check file size/type and retry.
- Chat not using knowledge base → Ensure the database icon is filled (included) or select KBs for the session.

## ![kb-selected](images/chat-input-kb-selected.png)

## ![kb-unselected](images/chat-input-kb-unselected.png)
